# BrassiToL

These are the scripts needed to reconstructing the most complete Brassicaceae genus-level family phylogenies to date (Brassicaceae Tree of Life, or BrassiToL) with the publication by Hendriks et al. (2023).

## Summary
The mustard family (Brassicaceae) is a scientifically and economically important family, containing the model plant <i>Arabidopsis thaliana</i> and numerous crop species that feed billions worldwide. Despite its relevance, most phylogenetic studies of the family are incompletely sampled and/or contain massive polytomies. Here, we present the most complete Brassicaceae genus-level family phylogenies to date (Brassicaceae Tree of Life, or BrassiToL) based on nuclear (1,081 genes, 319 of 349 genera, 57 of 58 tribes) and plastome (60 genes, 265 genera, all tribes) data. We found cytonuclear discordance between the two, which is likely a result of rampant hybridisation among closely and more distantly related lineages. To evaluate the impact of such hybridisation on the nuclear phylogeny reconstruction, we performed four different gene sampling routines, which increasingly removed variable genes that contain likely paralogs. Our cleaned subset of 297 genes revealed high support for the tribes, while support for the main lineages remained relatively low. Calibration based on the 20 most clock-like nuclear genes suggests a late Eocene to late Oligocene origin of the family. Finally, we propose a new family classification with two subfamilies and five supertribes representing in total six consistently recovered main lineages that together contain 58 tribes. This includes five new or re-established tribes, including Arabidopsideae, a monogeneric tribe accommodating <i>Arabidopsis</i> without any close relatives. With a worldwide community of thousands of researchers working on this family, our new, densely sampled family phylogeny will be an indispensable tool for studies on biodiversity and plant biology.
